#summary API documentation

= API documentation =

Brief list of available functions, objects, properties and methods

== Global functions ==
  * `include` - include script file
  * `quit` - terminate execution
  * `system.env` - hash with environment variables. Read-only.
  * `system.stdin(count, [binary])` - read `count` bytes from standard input. If `binary == true`, data is returned as an array of numbers.
  * `system.stdout(data)` - write `data` to standard output. Data can be either string of array of numbers (ascii values).

== File functions ==
  * `var f = new File(fileName)` - creates new file instance
  * `f.open(mode)` - opens the file with a given mode
  * `f.close()` - closes the file
  * `f.read([count], [binary])` - reads `count` (or all) bytes from file.
  * `f.write(data)` - writes `data` to the file
  * `f.remove()` - deletes the file
  * `f.getSize()` - returns file size
  * `f.toString()` - returns file name

== MySQL functions ==
  * `var m = new MySQL()` - creates new mysql instance
  * `m.connect(host, user, password, db)` - connects to database
  * `m.error()` - returns error description
  * `m.errno()` - returns error number
  * `m.affectedRows()` - returns number of rows affected by a query
  * `m.insertId()` - returns ID of last inserted row
  * `m.escape(str)` - escapes a string so it can be used in a query
  * `var r = m.query(query)` - executes a query
  * `r.numRows()` - returns number of rows in query result
  * `r.numFields()` - returns number of fields in query result
  * `r.fetchNames()` - returns an array with field names
  * `r.fetchArrays()` - returns query results as an array of arrays
  * `r.fetchObjects()` - returns query results as an array of hashes

== HTTP functions (in http.js)==

  * `request.get` - hash with GET variables
  * `request.post` - hash with POST variables
  * `request.cookie` - hash with cookie variables
  * `request.method` - HTTP method used (uppercase)
  * `request.files` - hash with uploaded files. Each file has the following properties:
    * `.data` - content
    * `.headers` - hash with headers
    * `.originalName` - file's original name
  * `request.header(headerName)` - returns request HTTP header

  * `response.write(data)` - outputs `data`
  * `response.error(text)` - outputs error `text`
  * `response.header(headers)` - outputs `headers` (hash) as HTTP response headers
  * `response.dump(data)` - recursively outputs `data`
  * `response.escape(data)` - converts *<*, *>*, *&*, *"*, *'* to HTML entities

