#summary v8cgi User manual
#labels Featured

= User manual =

v8cgi is an embedding of [http://code.google.com/p/v8/ V8], a !JavaScript interpreter from Google. v8cgi can be used in many ways; either as a CLI (Command-line Interface) program for executing (shell-)scripts, or as an Apache module / CGI binary for creating and serving web pages.

v8cgi ships with various libraries (modules), which provide additional functionality. v8cgi runs on Posix-compliant systems and Microsoft Windows.

= First steps =

In order to use v8cgi, you first have to get the binary. Windows users can just download a [http://code.google.com/p/v8cgi/downloads/list precompiled release], otherwise one has to compile v8cgi from source. There is a separated wikipage dedicated to [Compiling Compiling v8cgi].

When you have a v8cgi working, you need to setup the configuration file. It needs to be placed to a pre-defined location, which is set at compile time. If unsure, just run v8cgi - it will tell you if the configuration file is not at the correct location.

You should check the configuration file and edit it if necessary. The most important value is `require.paths`, which corresponds to the directory in which v8cgi modules are located. *It is not possible to directly modify require.paths property; one must use array methods to modify its contents.*

*Windows users only:* v8cgi requires v8.dll to be present; additional v8cgi modules (most notably PostgreSQL) have more dll dependencies. These files are located in `dll/` subdirectory of Windows distribution, copy them either to system path or to v8cgi directory as necessary.

= Running =

== As a command-line program ==

Syntax (Linux/BSD/MacOS/Posix):
{{{
v8cgi [-c configfile] [-d debugger_port] myscript.js
}}}

Syntax (Windows):
{{{
v8cgi.exe [-c configfile] [-d debugger_port] myscript.js
}}}

If no `-c` option is specified, then the system-wide config file is used. The location for this file is set at compile time. If no system config file exists, then v8cgi will refuse to run.

The `-d` options specifies a TCP port for the V8 debugger agent to listen at. If no `-d` option is specified, the debugger agent is disabled.

== As Apache module ==

This is described at [ApacheConfiguration separate page].

= Additional reading =
  * [API API Documentation]
  * [CodeSnippets Short code examples]
  * [Modules Using and creating modules]
  * [InstallationUbuntu Detailed instructions for Ubuntu]